link to finished codepen: https://codepen.io/davarg5/pen/MWyvNgv


    1. What is Semantic HTML? 
    html that gives meaning to the markup

    2. What is HTML used for? 
    it is used to structure websites

    3. What is an attribute and where do we put it? 
    an attribute provides additional information about elements and should be used in the start tag

    4. What is the h1 tag used for? How many times should I use it on a page?
    used for the title and should only be used once

    5. Name two tags that have required attributes
    href, src

    6. What do we put in the head of our HTML document? 
    metadata

    7. What is an id? 
    an attribute that specifies a unique id for an HTML element

    8. What elements can I add an id to? 
    all elements

    9. How many times can I use the same id on a page? 
    once

    10. What is a class? 
    an attribute that specifies one or more class names for an HTML element

    11. What elements can I add a class to? 
    all elements

    12. How many times can I use the same class on a page? 
    infinite 

    13. How do I get my link to open in a new tab?
    target="_blank"

    14. What is the alt attribute in the image tag used for?
     it is used to provide alternative info for an image if the image cannot be displayed

    15. How do I reference an id?
    with a #

    16. What is the difference between a section and a div
    div is a generic container for flow content and has no special meaning (basically for styling purposes), while section is not a general container element and gives the content meaning

    17. What is CSS used for? 
    styling

    18. How to we select an element? Example - every h2 on the page
    element {}

    19. What is the difference between a class and an id? - Give me an example of when I might use each one
    id is used to identify one element, and a class can identify multiple elements. class can be used to change the color of multiple paragraph blocks, while id can be used to single out one of the paragraphs and give it a unique color.

    20. How do we select classes in CSS?
    .class{}

    21. How do we select a p element with a single class of “human””?
    p .human{}

    22. What is a parent child selector? When would this be useful? 
    parent child selector is a selector used to access content that is nested within 1 or more tags. useful to access nested content

    23. How do you select all links within a div with the class of sidebar?
    .sidebar a {}

    24. What is a pseudo selector?
    a selector used to access a pseudo class, which is used to define a special state of an element.

    25. What do we use the change the spacing between lines?
    line-height property

    26. What do we use to change the spacing between letters?
    letter-spacing

    27. What do we use to to change everything to CAPITALS? lowercase? Capitalize?
    text-transform: uppercase, text-transform: lowercase, text-transform: capitalize 

    28. How do I add a 1px border around my div that is dotted and black?
    div {
        border-style: dotted;
        border: 1px solid black;
    }

    29. How do I select everything on the page? 
    *{}

    30. How do I write a comment in CSS?
    /*comment*/

    31. How do I find out what file I am in, when I am using the command line?
    pwd

    32. Using the command line - how do I see a list of files/folders in my current folder?
    ls 

    33. How do I remove a file via the command line? Why do I have to be careful with this? 
    rm, this could accidentally delete too much

    34. Why should I use version control? 
    allows you to compare files, identify differences, and merge changes

    35. How often should I commit to github?
    every 15-20 min or whenever you make an important change in the code

    36. What is the command we would use to push our repo up to github? 
    git push -u origin ""

    37. Walk me through Lambda's git flow. 
    fork the repo
    add TL 
    clone forked repo into directory
    create your own branch
    work on project
    add repo changes
    commit changes 
    push commits
    submit pull request

Stretch Questions

    1. What is the difference between an inline element and a block element?
    inline elements don't add a new line in the page, while block elements implement a line break

    2. What happens when an element is positioned absolutely?
     When an element is positioned absolutely, it is removed from the normal document flow, and it is positioned relative to its closest ancestor element.

    3. How do I make an element take up only the amount of space it needs but also have the ability to give it a width?

    use the flex property, which sets the flexible length

    4. Name 3 elements that are diplay block by default, 2 elements that are display inline by default and 1 element that is display inline-block by default

    block: <div>, <p>, <section>
    inline: <a>, <span>
    inline-block: <button>

    5. In your own words, explain the box model. What is the "fix" for the box model, in other words, how do we make all elements respect the width we've given them? 

    The box model consists 4 elements: margin, border, padding, and content 